One of the most
important classes
in the fork-join
framework, of course,
is the ForkJoinPool
class, not surprisingly.
And in this part
of the lesson, I'm
going to talk about the
structure and functionality
of the fork-join framework,
and focus particularly
on the ForkJoinPool itself.
But be aware that ForkJoinPool
works in conjunction
with a bunch of other things.
So the ForkJoinPool actually
implements the ExecutorService,
which means it's capable of
doing the same kinds of things
that other ExecutorService
implementations can do.
This ExecutorService
is the basis
for a whole bunch of subclasses
in the Java executor framework.
Again, if you go
and watch my course
on concurrent
object-oriented programming,
you'll get to learn all about
the different interfaces
and abstract classes and
concrete classes in the Java
executor framework.
We, of course, care primarily
about the ForkJoinPool here.
There are other implementations
of the ExecutorService
that can be used to execute
other kinds of entities.
For example, the
ThreadPoolExecutor
and the
ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor
can be used to execute
runnables, which
have no return
value, or callables,
which do have a return value.
In contrast, the ForkJoinPool
is primarily there
to execute ForkJoinTasks.
And we'll talk more about
what a ForkJoinTask is
in just the second.
It's possible for
the ForkJoinPool
to also execute
runnables and callables,
since after all, it's
basically implementing
portions of the
ExecutorService interface.
But that's not really
its main purpose.
If you use ForkJoinPool
to execute callables
and runnables, you're
probably missing out
on the real benefit
of what it does.
There are intentionally
very few knobs that
can control a ForkJoinPool.
So it's kind of like
a one-button mouse.
There's hardly
anything you can do
to it to control it other
than just maybe selecting
some ways of
influencing its size.
Compare and contrast that
with the ThreadPoolExecutor
framework, which has lots
and lots of knobs and buttons
to control.
With the ThreadPoolExecutor, you
can control the CorePool size,
the MaxPool size.
You can select the
type of WorkQueue
that's used to queue up
incoming requests before they're
processed by threads.
You can determine
how long threads will
live if they're not active.
You can select a thread factory.
You can have this thing called
the RejectedExceptionHandler,
and so on and so forth.
So there's myriad
policies that can
be overridden and customized
and set with ThreadPoolExecutor,
none of which can be done
with the ForkJoinPool,
for the most part.
About the only thing you can
do with the ForkJoinPool class
is you can configure its size.
And there, you primarily
focus on configuring the size
of the common ForkJoinPool.
And as we'll talk
about here shortly,
you can either do this by
setting a system property,
which is sort of crafty.
Or you can use something called
the managed blocker interface.